<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xml:lang="en-US">
  <head>
    <title>Proposed MGSA Constitution</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="mgsa.css"/>
    <link rel="icon" type="image/svg+xml" href="dodecahedron_small.svg"/>
    <link rel="icon" type="image/png" href="dodecahedron_small.png"/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://www3.nd.edu/~mgsa/constitution.xhtml"/>
    <meta name="viewport" content="initial-scale=1.0"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <header>
      <h1>Constitution</h1>
      <p>Constitution of the Mathematics Graduate Student Association (<abbr>MGSA</abbr>) of the University of Notre Dame du Lac.</p>
      <p>Effective <time datetime="2005-08-29">August 29, 2005</time>.  Amended <time datetime="2010-09-20">September 20, 2010</time>.  Amended <time datetime="2014-02-19">February 19, 2014</time>.  Amended <time datetime="2015-04-27">April 27, 2015</time>. Amended <time datetime="2015-09-14">September 14, 2015</time>.</p>
    </header>
    <section>
      <h2>Name</h2>
      <p>The name of this organization shall be: Mathematics Graduate Student Association, in short <abbr>MGSA</abbr>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h2>Purpose</h2>
      <p>The purpose of this organization shall be to improve studying and working conditions for graduate students in the Department of Mathematics at the University of Notre Dame du Lac.</p>
      <p>The organization shall encourage communication among students, faculty, and staff, contribute to a rich social life in the department, and encourage communications between the Department of Mathematics and the Department of <abbr>ACMS</abbr>.</p>
      <p>It shall be a source of support and information for all graduate students.</p>
      <p>It shall conduct the election of representatives to the University's Graduate Student Union (<abbr>GSU</abbr>) in accordance with that organization's rules.</p>
      <p>It shall seek funds for refreshments for the Graduate Student Seminar, held regularly in the department during the academic year.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h2>Membership Requirements</h2>
      <section>
	<h2>Active Members</h2>
	<p>Active members of <abbr>MGSA</abbr> are all currently registered graduate students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac's Department of Mathematics (this includes those who are currently non-resident).  Membership is automatic and cannot be denied by <abbr>MGSA</abbr>.  <abbr>MGSA</abbr> does not discriminate on the basis of gender, orientation, race, religion, or national origin.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
	<h2>Passive Members</h2>
	<p>Passive Members of <abbr>MGSA</abbr> are alumni of the Department of Mathematics, including those who graduated before <time>2005</time>.  Upon graduation, the active members do not lose their membership benefits, except for their voting rights.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
	<h2>Honorary Members</h2>
	<p><abbr>MGSA</abbr> can appoint honorary members.  They are passive members, i.e. they have no right to vote.  They need not be previous students of mathematics.  The appointment of an honorary member may be done at any <abbr>MGSA</abbr> meeting with a simple majority.</p>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h2>Officers</h2>
      <div class="semantic-paragraph">
	<p>This organization shall have six elected officers.  They are:</p>
	<ul>
	  <li>President</li>
	  <li>Secretary</li>
	  <li>Treasurer</li>
	  <li>First-Year Representative</li>
	  <li>Two <abbr>GSU</abbr> Representatives</li>
	</ul>
	<p>The officers must be active members of <abbr>MGSA</abbr>.</p>
      </div>
      <p>Term of office is the academic year.  However, the transfer of power to the new officers is at the end of the spring semester, so that the new officers can prepare for the coming academic year. If an officer graduates or retires from office during an academic year, the remaining officers appoint a replacement officer.</p>
      <section>
	<h2>Duties of Officers</h2>
	<p>The president calls and leads the meetings of <abbr>MGSA</abbr>.  He or she represents the graduate students' interests in administrative matters.  He or she is the primary contact for the Department Chair and the Director of Graduate Studies of the Department of Mathematics.  The President is to be available for the academic year following his or her term to advise the new officers (upon request).  First-year students may not run for this office.</p>
	<p>The Secretary takes minutes at meetings, sends out newsletters and other communications, maintains the website and the mailing list, and assists the other officers as needed.</p>
	<p>The Treasurer collects and deposits funds into the accound held by the Mathematics department, reimburses members for approved expenses, organizes the Graduate Student Seminar, and assists the other officers as needed.</p>
	<p>The First-Year Representatives represent the interests of the incoming first-year students.  They are the primary contact between all first-year students and the <abbr>MGSA</abbr>, and are charged with relaying any concerns by the first-years to the President as needed.  This office is open only to first-year students.</p>
	<p>The <abbr>GSU</abbr> Representatives attend <abbr>GSU</abbr> meetings, send a summary of each <abbr>GSU</abbr> meeting to the President, and perform all duties of <abbr>GSU</abbr> Representatives as established in the <abbr>GSU</abbr> constitution.</p>
      </section>
      <p>After elections, the departing officers shall pass all relevant documents (including passwords) to their successors.  In addition, the President will prepare a brief report, summarizing the activities of the <abbr>MGSA</abbr> over the previous academic year.  Once reviewed and accepted by the departing <abbr>MGSA</abbr> officers, this will be presented to the incoming officers and made public to all <abbr>MGSA</abbr> members.  Finally, all officers' names and positions (both elected and appointed) as well as the members of any committees will be added to <abbr>MGSA</abbr> Officers Archive.</p>
      <p>Several other positions may be created and ratified by vote at any <abbr>MGSA</abbr> meeting.  It is suggested that interested <abbr>MGSA</abbr> members who unsuccessfully campaigned for office be given preference for  the positions.  Officers are encouraged to consult the <abbr>MGSA</abbr> Officers Archive to see what positions had been created in previous years.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h2>Elections</h2>
      <p>Elections shall be held in April for the upcoming academic year for all offices but first-year representatives, and at the beginning of the academic year for those offices. Only first-year students may vote in the election of the first-year representative.</p>
      <p>All active members may run for office, and no one may hold more than one office at a time.  No person may hold the office of President for more than 2 years.  Nominees need not be present at the <abbr>MGSA</abbr> election, but may be nominated in absentia.</p>
      <p>If for a specific office only one member has been nominated and decided to run, he is considered elected.  For this office no election will be held.</p>
      <section>
	<h2>Procedure</h2>
	<p>All active members may vote in an election.  The candidate with the most votes is elected.  If a two-way tie is reached, a runoff election is held for that office between only the tied candidates.  If there are only two nominees tied for votes, or if the following runoff election results in a tie, then the winner will be the most senior member of their department.  If they are of equal seniority, a coin toss will decide the elected official. In the case of electronic voting for an election, nominees shall be nominated as usual, and the election shall remain open for 7 days, ending at 23:59 on the 7th day.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
	<h2>Election Officers</h2>
	<p>The elections shall be organized by two election officers who are chosen at an <abbr>MGSA</abbr> meeting.  They must be active members.  Election officers may not run for office in the election they are administering. If the election is to be held electronically, the Secretary shall be one of the two officers (provided the Secretary is not running for office in the election).</p>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h2>Meetings</h2>
      <p>Regular meetings of <abbr>MGSA</abbr> shall be held at least twice a semester: at the beginning and at the end.  Additional meetings can be called any time upon request by any member to the President.  Invitations to the meetings shall be distributed ahead of time to all active <abbr>MGSA</abbr> members.  All <abbr>MGSA</abbr> meetings are however open to all members, active, passive, or honorary.</p>
      <p>Quorum shall be 20% of resident active members; simple majority shall suffice for all decisions, except alterations to the constitution.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h2>Advisors</h2>
      <p>The advisors of <abbr>MGSA</abbr> shall be the Department Chair and the Director of Graduate Studies of the Department of Mathematics. The advisors shall help mediate between administration and graduate student body in case of conflicts and provide guidance for the students.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h2>Committees</h2>
      <p><abbr>MGSA</abbr> has no standing committees.  Officers are encouraged for form committees as needed and may refer to <abbr>MGSA</abbr> Officers Archive for guidance.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h2>Dues</h2>
      <p><abbr>MGSA</abbr> does not collect any dues.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h2>Handling of Funds</h2>
      <p><abbr>MGSA</abbr>'s account will be managed by the Treasurer.</p>
      <p>In his or her absence, the officers have full access to the account, in the following order: President, Secretary, First-year Representative, and then <abbr>GSU</abbr> Representatives in compliance with the campus registration form.</p>
      <p>All monies collected on campus must be deposited into <abbr>MGSA</abbr>'s account.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h2>Amendments and Revisions</h2>
      <p>To amend or revise the Constitution, the text of the old article and the proposed change must be announced to all graduate students with a minimum of two weeks' deliberation time.  Voting shall take place at a special meeting called for this purpose, and require a quorum size of 30% of all resident active members, plus one.  A majority of 2/3 of the active members in attendance is necessary.  If quorum is not reached, a non-anonymous mail-in vote shall be taken with two weeks voting time; this vote may involve physical ballots, electronic ballots, or both.  A majority of 2/3 of the actual votes shall suffice.</p>
      <p>The Secretary shall arrange publication of the changed constitution.  The constitution must also be available of <abbr>MGSA</abbr>'s website.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h2>Preservation of Funds</h2>
      <p>Should the organization ever dissolve or fail to re-register with <abbr>GSU</abbr>, any of its funds held by the Mathematics Department shall remain until the organization can reestablish itself.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
